and I mean one of the recurring motifs
is just us being astounded like how can
you charge $12 for a vegan cake the size
of a muffin you know that was an
extraordinary example of it yeah that
was right I understand many of these
being businesses they're almost like a
charity they start up with a sense of
quote serving the community close quote
you know of being a kind of vegans feel
about these businesses as if they're
charities but if it's a charity who is
the beneficiary and who's the donor
right you can't be gouging vegans you
can't be ripping off your fellow vegans
in order to support what other group of
people know make more sense if you want
to run it as a charity incorporate as a
nonprofit and actually sell those things
that are their nonprofit you could do
that a pancake is a pancake when you
remove the eggs and you remove the dairy
you remove the probably it's dairy
powder or possibly butter or possibly
milk whatever the recipes using you
remove the eggs you with dairy why would
the vegan pancake suddenly be way more
expensive than not being a pancake and
yet say that for a vegan muffin for a
vegan cupcake for a vegan loaf of bread
it's problematic to me that vegan
becomes a luxury label very much like
organic the organic label is now used to
justify price inflation for jacking up
prices that's it oh well but sir this is
an organic bagel or this is an organic
muffin so of course it's four times the
price you know what I mean and again
maybe it should be 5% more but it really
doesn't it doesn't figure and it's it's
just sad to see the vegan label going
that way because veganism is for me an
ethical and ecological cause that I care
a great deal about I baddest yen yeah I
bought a new lighting setup but it
didn't come with a plug so we haven't
plugged it in her I used the yogurt so
you all have to suffer a horrible
horrible video quality that you have as
a result under this link but anyway look
um babe we've talked about this IRL but
we did know no prep for this video it's
scary to me that vegan the word vegan
becomes a label for overpriced food
just buying overpriced food and that
most of the time when you're looking at
especially in restaurants but sometimes
with prepared food sometimes at the
grocery store items too when you're
looking at vegan food you're normally
looking something that is cheaper in
terms of its ingredients in terms of its
composition here's its production cost
it's in that is cheap or ought to be
cheap or should be cheaper than the meat
item it's replacing the non vedo maestro
but in fact it's more expensive yep I
mean look this is a problem for many
different angles in reality what we're
talking about here it's like taking a
sock and turning it inside out this is
the inside-out sock of what so many
other YouTube channels have complained
about quote oh people complain that
being vegan is too expensive but really
it's cheap you just eat lentils and
broccoli every day you know close quote
because the reality is people perceive
veganism
as too expensive because the word vegan
has become a label for luxury food and a
justification for things being
overpriced right yeah like today we went
to a bakery and they had a kind of apple
cake apple strudel kind of thing that
happened to be vegan wasn't labeled as
vegan wasn't marketed as vegan and it
was really cheap it was really well
priced which stunned us we've recently
been all over the world we did just the
most recent trip was China Thailand
France Detroit then Seattle Vancouver
long long long trip and I mean one of
the recurring motifs is just us being
astounded like how can you charge $12
for a vegan cake the size of a muffin
you know that was an extraordinary
example of it yeah that was right they
are overpriced and they're overpriced
when it's a non vegan place with just
one or two vegan items legal label
interpreted as such and they're
overpriced when the whole the whole
restaurant of the whole operation is
vegan you know with very very few
exceptions look say what you really feel
but I put this question to you you saw
the reaction we got when we just talked
about price versus quality
in our review of the different
restaurants in Detroit we have one video
that talks we attempt to review every
single vegan restaurant in both Detroit
and Ann Arbor two cities that are close
to each other in the United States
America responded on patreon to you and
another person on the post that I made
for the Detroit vegan group Facebook
group they commented that they have to
choose certain ingredients which are
more expensive to verify that the baked
goods are indeed vegan so making sure
that the sugar is organic so that it has
been verified to be vegan and yeah and I
you know I can sympathize and I think
there may be some up taking costs for
some of the ingredients in vegan baked
goods but yeah it is it does seem to
just be astronomical compared to what
you would expect I mean right now we are
going to start baking more at home and
so would be good to do like a cost
analysis of what the different
ingredients cost and you know having all
vegan ingredients you know like if you
can actually estimate like how much this
one cupcake should cost with all the
ingredients because we're purchasing the
ingredients ourselves all right so um
well in some ways the free market is
irrational I use this example the time
just discussions within the relationship
like not in formal essays if I say all
the time like well how much is a bottle
of champagne worth I mean a bottle of
champagne can be $100 a bottle drinking
champagne can be $10,000 and a bottle of
champagne I think in theory can be ten
or twenty dollars that you'd find really
cheap champagne well it's not because
they're it's not because there were more
grapes it's not because the grapes cost
more you know I mean just recently we're
we are just starting out in the kitchen
so we're getting all the you know all
the condiments that you yeah so we were
getting soy sauce and it was like okay
that's right so good example you get one
for like a smaller amount for what was
close to like ten dollars or you can get
one that's
two dollars and it's to be full of
artificial ingredients and that was the
next thing was gonna say you're sorry
isn't soybeans the first ingredients
water or like right right right right
now artificial flavor anything that
makes it sound so that was what I was
gonna say right back but actually the
range of prices in soy sauce it's easier
to explain than the range of prices in
bottles of champagne or vegan baked
goods like a vegan cookie or vegan loaf
of bread or vegan cupcake because you
know real sense what is soy sauce it's
actually more debatable anything that
tastes like soy sauce and is black in
color can get sold as soy sauce but
actually when you read the labels the
more expensive soy sauce had genuinely
different ingredients now even then it's
kind of ridiculous how like soy sauce
can be two dollars it gonna be twenty
dollars seems a little seems a little
hard to justify but it's true uh but no
you know if you're if you really measure
it out at home if you're making a
cupcake how many pennies worth of
different is is it in your buying these
ingredients in bulk you're not buying
them in little fancy gift bags if you've
I mean the difference in the price of
the sugar can't explain you know
quadrupling or sex toppling the price
like you know totally maybe maybe it has
to be ten percent more expensive because
you're using a slightly finer sugar than
your competition but know your non vegan
bakeries they may be using you know a
Pharaoh a sugar that costs as much
anyway you know they may not be using
the cheapest sugar just because of
flavor you know what I mean they could
be they could be using a sugar more
expensive than the vegan bakers that's
entirely possible
you know they can just be using a fine
Baker sugar for whatever reason you know
that's the effect they want so you'd be
looking at a few tiny percentage points
five percent more the price or something
due to a difference in the cost and but
I mean otherwise a pancake is a pancake
when you remove the eggs and you remove
the dairy you remove the probably it's
dairy powder or possibly butter or
possibly milk whatever the recipes using
you remove the eggs you with dairy why
would the vegan pancake suddenly be way
more expensive than not being a pancake
and yet say that for a vegan muffin for
a
and cupcake for a V a vegan loaf of
bread I mean you know plenty of bread is
accidentally vegan anyway it just
doesn't happen to use those ingredients
without declaring itself vegan but it's
problematic to me that vegan becomes a
luxury label very much like organic you
know and and tied in people's minds I
think you can see where's Mars
yeah right yeah yeah yeah yeah right as
if vegan and gluten-free are
interchangeable bakery asking for vegan
food you know they tell us like yeah
it's I mean I know I know some people
really do have celiac disease yes but
but if you don't if you don't if you're
not a celiac you don't have that disease
then see the gluten-free is not an
ethical crusade or cause or it's not a
movement in that sense the way veganism
is anybody's also I don't believe
there's any religion in the world that
supports celiac disease as a creed or a
matter of faith you know I have said to
you that when we go around those shops
and you see like you let's say you're
standing in a display case in a coffee
shop showed out to JJ beam so GJ beam is
a relatively small coffee shop chain
competing with Starbucks but they are
chain there are there are you know
they're a fairly large company in that
sense but if you're maybe they have ten
shops or 15 shops it's like but they're
they're not huge as a change um but you
know when you stand in front of that
case and you just see the word vegan
next to several they several of the
sandwiches several of the cookies you
know have vegan when you think about it
that's an incredibly powerful form of
marketing or advertising or promotion
and they aren't more expensive
sandwiches and cookies I think there are
millions there are millions of
ten-year-old kids who will see that in
the case and just ask what is vegan you
know I can remember being a little kid
and asking what is halal or what is
coach you know when something is listed
as hell out then you find out what halal
is when you see food with this kind of
thing next to it so you know this is a
really powerful thing but the flipside
is um very
I'm very uncomfortable with I mean the
word vegan basically becoming a pretext
for price gouging yes I think we see we
see all the time yeah well you were just
talking about the bakery that did end up
failing here in Victoria right that's
right and you felt their prices were too
expensive and it's something that you
you know you butted heads with the owner
about but we were just at a vegan meetup
and you were talking about someone
brought up that they like mentioned that
bakery and you said oh well they went
out of business and she was like yeah
well the costs were too high maybe she
spent twenty dollars for like a sampler
of the right items that she sold so um
so this was a this was a this was a
vegan bakery it was a new start up here
in Victoria but it's not a charity it's
a business which I respect you know it's
trying to break even or make some money
or what have you you know it's got the
responsibilities of a business now I
wouldn't really say I butted heads with
the owner and what the price is but I
just said to her okay I want to order
bagels in advance so you have to realize
that for a baker there is no risk if
you're only taking orders in advance if
I wake up in the morning and I bake a
hundred bagels and then I go out and
sell them and maybe only 60 of them sell
and then 40 go in the garbage that's an
element of risk maybe some days I sell
out maybe on Saturday and Sunday I sell
all my bagels but maybe on a Monday and
Tuesday or maybe it rains it's a
business like that bake it there's bad
weather it's snowing and people don't
come to buy your bagels maybe of one day
we only sell 10 percent your bagels and
90 percent go in the garbage
that's risk and in capitalism risk is
linked to reward and that is part of the
price structure for baked goods is
people trying to predict what percentage
of them will sell and what percentage of
them will end up being composted or
worse right so I said to her look I'm
sorry but your prices work out to like
over two dollars and fifty cents of a
goal or something
even when I'm buying by the Dozen and
even when I'm ordering in advance now
you know actually bagels are overpriced
here in Victoria anyway
right I mean we should do some more
reading about that yeah there's been a
scandal about that in Canada where some
corporations have been admitting
intentionally price-fixing intentionally
conspiring it would be an antitrust case
of a situation but intentionally
multiple companies engaging in a form
conspiracy to raise the price of bread
for the customers so there are factors
there but even with that aside you know
you're looking at about one dollar per
bagel buying at a normal grocery store
here you can be a little bit more a
little bit less dollar twenty five or
you know maybe eighty ninety cents per
bagel this kind of thing you know um so
I just said you were how can I justify
if I'm buying this in advance well it
doesn't
thanks so much the big one she didn't
hear it so look I feel long story short
all I'm saying is you've got to hear it
I mean how you know again like you can't
I understand many of these being
businesses they're almost like a charity
they start up with a sense of quote
serving the community close quote you
know of being a kind of vegans feel
about these businesses as if they're
charities but if it's a charity who is
the beneficiary and who's the donor
right you can't be gouging vegans you
can't be ripping off your fellow vegans
in order to support what other group of
people you know make more sense if you
want to run it as a charity incorporate
as a nonprofit and actually sell those
things that uh they're nonprofit you
could do that I mean they're they're
religious groups that do that providing
food forth in their own religion and
then don't market it as a business but
um you know anyway it's it's tough I
mean I you know of course people have to
make a living you know but we live in a
world where Tim Hortons it's a donut
store Tim saw Tim Hortons sells a donut
for one dollar I think they're 99 cents
in Canada and you have a vegan donut
place you know what was it three dollars
and fifty cents I think so I don't want
to name it cuz I'll get getting the
price wrong but we've seen three dollars
and fifty cents a donut for for a vegan
donut yeah and we've seen worse that's
not the worst example not by a long shot
you know I could maybe understand it be
more expensive than non vegan baked
goods but
not a bagel yeah Biggles just gonna be
the same price so why are you charging
more for right you can bagel like I know
right no but but look in terms of
ingredients for a bagel you're making
sure the bagel does not have honey some
bagels have money
the bagel does not have eggs some people
surveys how can that justify inflating
the price and it's not like there's
beautiful icing on it's not just a roll
of personal creativity in terms of you
know the way that some specialized
because there's element of presentation
or plating or something else that goes
into it I just thought about this too
it's it's that the person that
commented on my Detroit vegans post said
that they have to guarantee that it's
organic sugar because these particular
organic is not vegans that's right
that's true organic uses cows blood well
nobody that is the thing the organic
label is now used to justify price
inflation for jacking up prices that's
it oh well but sir this is an organic
baked lure this is an organic muffin so
of course it's four times the price you
know what I mean and again maybe it
should be 5% more but it really doesn't
doesn't figure and it's it's just sad to
see the vegan label going that way
because veganism is for me an ethical
and ecological cause that I care a great
deal about that's a wrap a bonus Yin